Custom scripts for manuscript 'A towering genome: co-adaptations to extreme stature inferred from giraffe genome and gene-edited mice'

# 00.basic_scripts
including three scripts:
01.convertMaf2List.pl was used to get reference-query nucleotide pairs from the maf file.
02.lst2gene.pl was used to generate the CDS sequence in query species accroding to the gff file of reference genome and the alignment list file generated by the first script.
03.cds2aa.pl was used to convert coding sequences to protein sequences.

# 01.CNEE_analysis
files numbered from 01 to 16 were used to predict HCE regions with the multi-sequence alignment maf files.
files numbered from 17 to 24 were used to get HCE regions with the at least four unique sites among rumiannt species and have a high zscore (>2.5).
files numbered from 25 to 29 were used to annotate genes around HCE regions and CNEE regions with the gff file of goat genome.

# 02.PAML_analysis
including two scripts:
01.gblock.pl was used to get conseved sequence blocks.
02.paml.pl was used to run paml for each gene with banch and branchsite model.

# 03.gene_family
including two shell files:
01.runOrthomcl.sh was used to get gene faimly file.
02.runcafe.sh was used to run cafe and get gene faimlies expanded or contracted in giraffe.

# 04.rapidly_evolving_pathways
01.basic_table.pl was used to get pathways under rapid evolution in giraffe.

# 05.gene_loss
Firstly, align raw reads used for the assembly of giraffe and okapi genome to cattle genome and get bam files. Then, 01.run.pl was used get genes uniquely lost in giraffe or okapi with the bam files. 

